JACQUES CHIRAC

Introduction
You were born Jacques René Chirac on November 29th, 1932, in Paris, France. Being very politically-minded, you attended and graduated from the Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris in 1954, and served as a French officer in the war in Algeria (from 1956-57). Following your valor in battle, you earned a graduate’s degree from l’École Nationale d'Administration in 1959, which helped you become a department head and minister for parliamentary relations in 1971 - 72. You served under Prime Minister Georges Pompidou, and were a favorite of the PM, who gave you the adoring nickname “Le Bulldozer” due to your persevering spirit. Several years later, in 1967, you were elected to the National Assembly as a Gaullist. In 1974, you became the Minister of the Interior, where you began to plan for your presidential candidacy. Pompidou’s death in 1976 was detrimental to your plans, so you delayed them slightly, but founded the Rassemblement Pour la République (RPR) political party, a neo-Gaullist group. A founder of the party, you were quickly chosen as leader, which in part helped you become mayor of Paris in 1977, which you would remain until 1995.


Following an unsuccessful campaign for the conservative vote in 1981, ultimately splitting the vote between yourself and Valéry Giscard d’Estaing and allowing François Mitterrand to win, you were appointed prime minister by Mitterrand in 1986, which allowed for a power-sharing arrangement (cohabitation) between yourself and the president that was unprecedented in the history of the Fifth Republic. Under this cohabitation, you were responsible for domestic affairs, and you are most well-known for privatizing many large corporations that had previously been nationalized under Mitterrand. You ran for president against Mitterrand in 1988, but this was unsuccessful and you resigned from the cabinet. You became president in 1995, after defeating the socialist Lionel Jospin. Due to economic difficulties out of your control, you were forced to make cutbacks in the budget, which did not help your popularity. In 1997, you encouraged early elections to emphasize your conservative economic program. Ultimately, this was unsuccessful, as the socialists lead by Jospin gained a majority of the votes, which harmed your abilities to institute policies. However, this failure steeled your resolve to run for reelection.


In the present day, your party have not shied away from the complaints of your fellow citizens. Feelings of insecurity have plagued many individuals following last year’s tragedy in New York, and the media have increased their reporting on “sensational” stories of attacks and acts of violence perpetuated throughout France. This, coupled with widespread unemployment (particularly among the young), has led France to fall in the rankings of European countries in terms of employment and national inflation levels. Your reelection bid acknowledges these mistakes, considers the concerns of your countrymen (and women!), and does not deny that the government was slow to respond to these issues. However, you make it clear in your pamphlets that you have not lost hope in the French people (after all, they are the ones that need to change, not yourself or your party). True French citizens will join the fight to reduce unemployment and help counter the forces of insecurity if you rouse them from their couches with your policies, including: ramping up policing in “difficult” neighborhoods (places with a certain “cultural richness”), imprisoning minors with repeated offenses, waging war on organized crime with governmental intelligence operations, and reinvigorating the national insurance against unemployment. These clear and strict measures have rallied the masses behind your pledge for independent security in this new age.


We are the evening of the 21st of April 2002. You have received 19,88% of the vote in the first round of elections, meaning you will be running against Jean-Marie Le Pen in the second round. You had been planning to confront Jospin, but he did not receive enough votes. The youth electorate must’ve been busy getting their tans at the beach! Be aware, however, that Jospin’s failure will insight some form of unpleasantness in the youth, who might be encouraged to have manifestations against you. If this occurs, you can simply use it as an example of why it is important for your unemployment and violence initiatives are so vital.


Go forth and lead, M. President.


Objectives
In the Game of Presidential Elections, you either win or you lose, and you must win. You are qualified and have a strong base in support of you, which can’t be said about every other candidate. Now that you have won the first round of elections, you must focus on gaining the support of the voters from the other political parties. The odds are in your favor, as the final vote is between you and a party that appeals to excessively extreme notions. Another tool at your disposal is the media, which you could use to mirror your discourse on the importance of security. However, while you campaigned with this message for your first term of presidency, this message is now being adopted by the far right leader Jean-Marie Le Pen. If you mirror his message too much, you might be labeled as a racist like him. You don’t want this, as you are good at campaigning, some say you are a “man of the people,” which is an image you want to maintain in preparation for the second round of elections. You also want to continue emphasizing the ideals of the RPR, which include rejecting appeals for nationalizations (which would ultimately entail the re-creation of a collectivist society). You aspire to emulate the “New Right” conservatives Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher. Make sure you appeal to the media so they convey your solution to France’s issues as the only solution to France’s issues. Others may try to coerce you into participating in a debate, but you have refused and will continue to refuse such “barbaric” manifestations of democracy, especially since doing so might expose the similarities between your message and that of the racist Le Pen. Oh, and one more thing: you really need this election to go well, or you may be forced to face the judicial courts without presidential immunity (see TOP SECRET section)!


You win the game if you gain the majority of the votes in the second round of the elections. Each of your fellow classmate participants represent 10.000 votes, which must be garnered through your political rhetoric and persuasiveness. Each type of character has unique methods in which they gain additional votes, which are then considered votes in your favor. In this regard, be sure to help your supporters be successful with their initiatives. You must have one newspaper publish at least one interview with yourself that paints you in a positive light, so be sure to give interviews only to respectable journalists who are sympathetic to your cause. Additionally, you must create a 2-3 page prospectus detailing your policies and addressing the issues of insecurity, unemployment, and independent liberties (the ability for your citizens to become educated-- linked to unemployment). If you complete all of these objectives, you have a very good chance at securing your reelection.


You lose the game if any or all of these eventualities occur:
* you do not receive enough votes from your supporters to win the second round of elections
* you participate in a debate with Jean-Marie Le Pen
* two articles are written on the scandals detailed in --TOP SECRET--
* you do not write a prospectus containing your campaign’s intent before the due date specified by the GM
* are not interviewed by at least one newspaper with similar political inclinations


Responsibilities
As the clear choice for the right-wing establishment candidate, you have a large segment of the vote which will remain loyal to you so long as you maintain the ideals of the RPR. Be sure to keep these voters on your side by using your presidential influence over the media and the political realm to emphasize the issues of insecurity. While other candidates write off insecurity as paranoid speculation, you are fully aware how important this threat is. You are a networking supergenius, and you have an extensive web of connections for you to counter Le Pen’s rhetoric. Use these abilities well. With great power comes great responsibility reelection!


Strategy/Relationships
Believe it or not, you are not the only candidate with a conservative mentality running for president! See if you can come to agreements with Jean Saint-Josse, Bruno Mégret, Corinne Lepage, and Christine Boutin. They will join your fight for the rights of man, which should be your default position in the press. These friendships could also serve in the event you become an organizer of a manifestation. One person with an “interesting” mindset is Jean-Marie Le Pen. His rhetoric is based on sensationalism, which is the main tactic his party employs to rile up the French citizens. Don’t anger him too much, but steer clear of being friends with the man, he is a vicious contender for the presidency. On the other hand, Lionel Jospin is a thorn in your foot. He served as prime minister of France during your first term, and the resulting “cohabitation” of beliefs made it difficult for some of your policies to succeed. Talk about a “coq belliqueux!” You’ve beat him twice before, yet he feels inclined to challenge your leadership on every turn. His socialist ideas are outdated and crude, France is much more secure under your party’s lead. He isn’t exactly an effective debater, but be sure to keep an eye on him, as he wouldn't hesitate to take you down. Additionally, ally yourself with other like-minded politicians who could help you win precious votes in the first round. Remember to be aware of the Front National and their leader, Jean-Marie Le Pen, that little stick in the mud. 


Needless to say, maintain your excellent relationship with the media, as they can make your candidacy a popular one.


--TOP SECRET--
You’re human! Mistakes happen! Except this mistake might make you responsible for the misappropriation of large amounts of taxpayer money. During your term as mayor of Paris, you signed contracts with your political allies, promising money for them to hire staff. That’s not too bad, right? It’s basically negligible that those staff members never actually existed. You may have also used city funds to fund the RPR political party that you founded. The average French voter is not terribly concerned with these sorts of charges, but it might be nice to emphasize the fact that France faces larger threats than mild corruption, including rampant immigration and vast economic difficulties. You’ve enjoyed presidential immunity in the courts during these past five years, which have kept you from being prosecuted, and you don’t want that status to disappear right away… You must control the mediatization of this information.
