You were born Jacques René Chirac on November 29th, 1932, in Paris, France. Being very politically-minded, you attended and graduated from the Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris in 1954, and served as a French officer in the war in Algeria (from 1956-57). Following your valor in battle, you earned a graduate’s degree from l’École Nationale d'Administration in 1959, which helped you become a department head and minister for parliamentary relations in 1971 - 72. You served under Prime Minister Georges Pompidou, and were a favorite of the PM, who gave you the adoring nickname “Le Bulldozer” due to your persevering spirit. Several years later, in 1967, you were elected to the National Assembly as a Gaullist. In 1974, you became the Minister of the Interior, where you began to plan for your presidential candidacy. Pompidou’s death in 1976 was detrimental to your plans, so you delayed them slightly, but founded the Rassemblement Pour la République (RPR) political party, a neo-Gaullist group. A founder of the party, you were quickly chosen as leader, which in part helped you become mayor of Paris in 1977, which you would remain until 1995.
Following an unsuccessful campaign for the conservative vote in 1981, ultimately splitting the vote between yourself and Valéry Giscard d’Estaing and allowing François Mitterrand to win, you were appointed prime minister by Mitterrand in 1986, which allowed for a power-sharing arrangement (cohabitation) between yourself and the president that was unprecedented in the history of the Fifth Republic. Under this cohabitation, you were responsible for domestic affairs, and you are most well-known for privatizing many large corporations that had previously been nationalized under Mitterrand. You ran for president against Mitterrand in 1988, but this was unsuccessful and you resigned from the cabinet. You became president in 1995, after defeating the socialist Lionel Jospin. Due to economic difficulties out of your control, you were forced to make cutbacks in the budget, which did not help your popularity. In 1997, you encouraged early elections to emphasize your conservative economic program. Ultimately, this was unsuccessful, as the socialists lead by Jospin gained a majority of the votes, which harmed your abilities to institute policies. However, this failure steeled your resolve to run for reelection.
In the present day, your party have not shied away from the complaints of your fellow citizens. Feelings of insecurity have plagued many individuals following last year’s tragedy in New York, and the media have increased their reporting on “sensational” stories of attacks and acts of violence perpetuated throughout France. This, coupled with widespread unemployment (particularly among the young), has led France to fall in the rankings of European countries in terms of employment and national inflation levels. Your reelection bid acknowledges these mistakes, considers the concerns of your countrymen (and women!), and does not deny that the government was slow to respond to these issues. However, you make it clear in your pamphlets that you have not lost hope in the French people (after all, they are the ones that need to change, not yourself or your party). True French citizens will join the fight to reduce unemployment and help counter the forces of insecurity if you rouse them from their couches with your policies, including: ramping up policing in “difficult” neighborhoods (places with a certain “cultural richness”), imprisoning minors with repeated offenses, waging war on organized crime with governmental intelligence operations, and reinvigorating the national insurance against unemployment. These clear and strict measures have rallied the masses behind your pledge for independent security in this new age.
We are the evening of the 21st of April 2002. You have received 19,88% of the vote in the first round of elections, meaning you will be running against Jean-Marie Le Pen in the second round. You had been planning to confront Jospin, but he did not receive enough votes. The youth electorate must’ve been busy getting their tans at the beach! Be aware, however, that Jospin’s failure will insight some form of unpleasantness in the youth, who might be encouraged to have manifestations against you. If this occurs, you can simply use it as an example of why it is important for your unemployment and violence initiatives are so vital.
Go forth and lead, M. President.
